# Getting started with client libraries

The Google Cloud Libraries for Python are a mixture of handwritten and autogenerated
libraries connecting to Google Cloud services. The handwritten libraries (such
as [google-cloud-firestore](https://docs.cloud.google.com/python/docs/reference/firestore/latest) and
[google-cloud-spanner](https://docs.cloud.google.com/python/docs/reference/spanner/latest))
are mostly higher level abstractions over the underlying API. See the documentation
for those individual libraries for details; the documentation here is primarily
aimed at the autogenerated libraries.

If you haven't already found the library for the API you're interested in, please consult
[the list of Python libraries](https://cloud.google.com/python/docs/reference) which shows both the package
name and the link to the library-specific documentation. In particular, each library has:

- A "getting started" page which lists the client types within that library
- Version history for the library
- API reference documentation

This page demonstrates using the [google-cloud-translate](https://docs.cloud.google.com/python/docs/reference/translate/latest)
API as a simple example; the steps required for other APIs are very similar.

## Prerequisites

All Google Cloud APIs require a Google Cloud project. If you haven't set one up already,
please [create one](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects).
You'll also need to [enable your chosen API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library) if it hasn't
already been used within that Google Cloud project.

There are no specific tools required to develop using the Google Cloud Libraries for Python. All
development environments should work, but you should check that you're targeting a
[supported version of Python](https://docs.cloud.google.com/python/docs/supported-python-versions).

We recommend installing the [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud).

## Install the library

All Google Cloud Libraries for Python are available from [PyPI](https://pypi.org) and can be installed
using `pip`. If you wish to install a pre-release version, you can specify the version explicitly
with the installation command.

The libraries can be installed in any regular environment, including virtual environments (recommended),
containerized applications, and web frameworks like Django or Flask.

For the translation example, we'll create a new directory, set up a virtual environment,
and install the package.

Note that for simplicity, the sample code below uses synchronous calls. Most libraries also provide
asynchronous clients (usually with suffix `AsyncClient`, rather than `Client`) for use in naturally asynchronous environments
using `asyncio`.

```sh
mkdir TranslationExample
cd TranslationExample
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install google-cloud-translate
```

> **Dependencies**
> If you install the library, you may notice
> transitive dependencies being installed. This is entirely expected, but you may not recognize
> some of those dependencies. The list below is not comprehensive, but highlights some of the packages
> you'll see being installed.
>
> - protobuf: the library supporting the [Protocol Buffers](https://protobuf.dev) serialization format
> - google-api-core: support libraries specifically tailored for the Google Cloud client libraries
> - google-auth: authentication support for Google Cloud credentials
> - grpcio: support for the [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) RPC protocol
> - google-cloud-core: common helpers and support for [long-running operations](https://docs.cloud.google.com/python/docs/reference/google-cloud-core/latest)

## Create a client

The first step in making any API calls is to create a client. Some libraries have multiple clients
for operations involving different resources; others have a single client. In the Translation API
we're using, we use `TranslationServiceClient` which can be used to create a synchronous client.

Clients can be configured in a number of ways, but in many cases the defaults are fine. The most
common reason to use an explicit configuration is to specify credentials for
[authentication](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/use-cases). For this example, we'll just use
[Application Default Credentials (ADC)](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/provide-credentials-adc#local-dev).
To set up ADC in your local environment, follow the instructions in
[Local development environment](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/provide-credentials-adc#local-dev).
When you create a client, it automatically detects and uses these credentials.

To create a client with default settings:

```python
from google.cloud import translate_v3 as translate

client = translate.TranslationServiceClient()
```

## Make requests

The Google Cloud Libraries use [Protocol Buffers](https://protobuf.dev)
to represent requests and responses, with some additional types to make the APIs more
convenient to work with.

Most APIs are expressed in terms of a single request returning a single response, although
there are also streaming APIs requiring multiple requests and/or multiple responses.
For our Translation API example, we'll create a simple request for the `translate_text` API.

```python
from google.cloud import translate_v3 as translate

client = translate.TranslationServiceClient()

project_id = "your-project-id-here"
location_id = "global"
parent = f"projects/{project_id}/locations/{location_id}"
request = translate.TranslateTextRequest(
    contents=["It is raining.", "It is sunny."],
    target_language_code="fr-FR",
    parent=parent
)

response = client.translate_text(request=request)
```

This example demonstrates a few features:

- Protocol Buffer messages are instantiated with keyword arguments representing the fields
- Repeated fields (like `contents`) are represented as Python lists
- The `parent` field is a string representation of a resource name. The library provides helper methods
  on the client to construct these paths, ensuring you don't need to concern yourself
  with the underlying resource name format.

The Google Cloud Libraries always expose methods accepting an API request object directly,
but they also support passing keyword arguments directly to the method for convenience:

```python
response = client.translate_text(
    contents=["It is raining.", "It is sunny."],
    target_language_code="fr-FR",
    parent=parent,
)
```

The response is also a Protocol Buffers message. You can inspect the structure of the response
by printing it, or by accessing its attributes directly. In this case we'll look at the
`translations` attribute:

```python
print(f"Translations returned: {len(response.translations)}")
print()
for translation in response.translations:
    print(f"Detected language: {translation.detected_language_code}")
    print(f"Translated text: {translation.translated_text}")
```

This produces output of:

```text
Translations returned: 2

Detected language: en
Translated text: Il pleut.

Detected language: en
Translated text: Il fait beau.
```

The complete code is:

```python
from google.cloud import translate_v3 as translate

client = translate.TranslationServiceClient()

project_id = "your-project-id-here"
location_id = "global"
parent = f"projects/{project_id}/locations/{location_id}"

request = translate.TranslateTextRequest(
    contents=["It is raining.", "It is sunny."],
    target_language_code="fr-FR",
    parent=parent,
)

response = client.translate_text(request=request)

print(f"Translations returned: {len(response.translations)}")
print()
for translation in response.translations:
    print(f"Detected language: {translation.detected_language_code}")
    print(f"Translated text: {translation.translated_text}")
    print()
```

This is just a simple example, which hasn't touched on features like pagination
or specifying call configurations like timeouts and retries.

