# Changelog

[PyPI History][1]

[1]: https://pypi.org/project/google-cloud-datastore/#history

## 1.7.0

### Implementation Changes

- Do not pass 'offset' once the query iterator has a cursor (#5503)
- Add test runs for Python 3.7 and remove run for 3.4 (#5295)

### Documentation

- minor fix to datastore example (#5452)
- Add example showing explicit unicode for text values in entities. (#5263)

### Internal / Testing Changes

- Modify system tests to use prerelease versions of grpcio (#5304)
- Avoid overwriting '__module__' of messages from shared modules. (#5364)
- Attempt again to reproduce #4264. (#5403)
- Fix bad trove classifier

## 1.6.0

### Implementation changes

- Don't check `exclude_from_indexes` for empty lists. (#4915)

### Dependencies

- The minimum version for `google-api-core` has been updated to version 1.0.0. This may cause some incompatibility with older google-cloud libraries, you will need to update those libraries if you have a dependency conflict. (#4944, #4946)

### Testing and internal changes

- Install local dependencies when running lint (#4936)
- Re-enable lint for tests, remove usage of pylint (#4921)
- Normalize all setup.py files (#4909)
- Exercise datastore query result paging (#4905)
- Pass `*session.posargs` through on command line for system tests. (#4904)

## 1.5.0

### Interface additions

- Added `Entity.id` property (#4640)
- Added optional `location_prefix` kwarg in `to_legacy_urlsafe` (#4635)
- Added support for transaction options (#4357)
- Added the ability to specify read consistency (#4343, #4376)

### Implementation changes

- The underlying autogenerated code was rengereated to pick up new features and bugfixes. (#4348, #4877)
- Updated the HTTP implementation to match the gRPC implementation. (#4388)
- Set `next_page_token` to `None` if there are no more results (#4349)

### Documentation

- Entity doc consistency (#4641)
- Fixing "Fore" -> "For" typo in README docs. (#4317)

### Testing

- Update datastore doctests to reflect change in cursor behavior. (#4382)
- Making a `nox -s default` session for all packages. (#4324)
- Shorten test names (#4321)


## 1.4.0

### Interface changes / additions

- Allowing `dict` (as an `Entity`) for property values. (#3927)

### Documentation

- Added link to "Python Development Environment Setup Guide" in
  project README (#4187, h/t to @michaelawyu)

### Dependencies

- Upgrading to `google-cloud-core >= 0.28.0` and adding dependency
  on `google-api-core` (#4221, #4280)

PyPI: https://pypi.org/project/google-cloud-datastore/1.4.0/
