dataproc/README.rst, before:

Python Client for Google Cloud Dataproc API (`Alpha`_)
======================================================

`Google Cloud Dataproc API`_: Manages Hadoop-based clusters and jobs on Google Cloud Platform.

- `Client Library Documentation`_
- `Product Documentation`_

.. _Alpha: https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-python/blob/master/README.rst
.. _Google Cloud Dataproc API: https://cloud.google.com/dataproc
.. _Client Library Documentation: https://googlecloudplatform.github.io/google-cloud-python/latest/dataproc/usage.html
.. _Product Documentation:  https://cloud.google.com/dataproc

Quick Start
-----------

In order to use this library, you first need to go through the following steps:

1. `Select or create a Cloud Platform project.`_
2. `Enable billing for your project.`_
3. `Enable the Google Cloud Dataproc API.`_
4. `Setup Authentication.`_

.. _Select or create a Cloud Platform project.: https://console.cloud.google.com/project
.. _Enable billing for your project.: https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project#enable_billing_for_a_project
.. _Enable the Google Cloud Dataproc API.:  https://cloud.google.com/dataproc
.. _Setup Authentication.: https://googlecloudplatform.github.io/google-cloud-python/latest/core/auth.html

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install this library in a `virtualenv`_ using pip. `virtualenv`_ is a tool to
create isolated Python environments. The basic problem it addresses is one of
dependencies and versions, and indirectly permissions.

With `virtualenv`_, it's possible to install this library without needing system
install permissions, and without clashing with the installed system
dependencies.

.. _`virtualenv`: https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/


Mac/Linux
^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    pip install virtualenv
    virtualenv <your-env>
    source <your-env>/bin/activate
    <your-env>/bin/pip install google-cloud-dataproc


Windows
^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    pip install virtualenv
    virtualenv <your-env>
    <your-env>\Scripts\activate
    <your-env>\Scripts\pip.exe install google-cloud-dataproc

Preview
~~~~~~~

ClusterControllerClient
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: py

    from google.cloud import dataproc_v1

    client = dataproc_v1.ClusterControllerClient()

    project_id = ''
    region = ''


    # Iterate over all results
    for element in client.list_clusters(project_id, region):
        # process element
        pass

    # Or iterate over results one page at a time
    for page in client.list_clusters(project_id, region, options=CallOptions(page_token=INITIAL_PAGE)):
        for element in page:
            # process element
            pass

Next Steps
~~~~~~~~~~

-  Read the `Client Library Documentation`_ for Google Cloud Dataproc API
   API to see other available methods on the client.
-  Read the `Google Cloud Dataproc API Product documentation`_ to learn
   more about the product and see How-to Guides.
-  View this `repository’s main README`_ to see the full list of Cloud
   APIs that we cover.

.. _Google Cloud Dataproc API Product documentation:  https://cloud.google.com/dataproc
.. _repository’s main README: https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-python/blob/master/README.rst

Commit message:

Dataproc: harmonize / DRY 'README.rst' / 'docs/index.rst'.
Toward #5912.

dataproc/README.rst, after:

Python Client for Google Cloud Dataproc API (`Alpha`_)
======================================================

|pypi| |versions|

`Google Cloud Dataproc API`_: Manages Hadoop-based clusters and jobs on Google Cloud Platform.

- `Client Library Documentation`_
- `Product Documentation`_

.. _Alpha: https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-python/blob/master/README.rst
.. |pypi| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/google-cloud-dataproc.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/google-cloud-dataproc/
.. |versions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/google-cloud-dataproc.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/google-cloud-dataproc/
.. _Google Cloud Dataproc API: https://cloud.google.com/dataproc
.. _Client Library Documentation: https://googlecloudplatform.github.io/google-cloud-python/latest/dataproc/usage.html
.. _Product Documentation:  https://cloud.google.com/dataproc

Quick Start
-----------

In order to use this library, you first need to go through the following steps:

1. `Select or create a Cloud Platform project.`_
2. `Enable billing for your project.`_
3. `Enable the Google Cloud Dataproc API.`_
4. `Setup Authentication.`_

.. _Select or create a Cloud Platform project.: https://console.cloud.google.com/project
.. _Enable billing for your project.: https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project#enable_billing_for_a_project
.. _Enable the Google Cloud Dataproc API.:  https://cloud.google.com/dataproc
.. _Setup Authentication.: https://googlecloudplatform.github.io/google-cloud-python/latest/core/auth.html

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install this library in a `virtualenv`_ using pip. `virtualenv`_ is a tool to
create isolated Python environments. The basic problem it addresses is one of
dependencies and versions, and indirectly permissions.

With `virtualenv`_, it's possible to install this library without needing system
install permissions, and without clashing with the installed system
dependencies.

.. _`virtualenv`: https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/


Mac/Linux
^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    pip install virtualenv
    virtualenv <your-env>
    source <your-env>/bin/activate
    <your-env>/bin/pip install google-cloud-dataproc


Windows
^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    pip install virtualenv
    virtualenv <your-env>
    <your-env>\Scripts\activate
    <your-env>\Scripts\pip.exe install google-cloud-dataproc

Example Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: py

    from google.cloud import dataproc_v1

    client = dataproc_v1.ClusterControllerClient()

    project_id = ''
    region = ''


    # Iterate over all results
    for element in client.list_clusters(project_id, region):
        # process element
        pass

    # Or iterate over results one page at a time
    for page in client.list_clusters(project_id, region, options=CallOptions(page_token=INITIAL_PAGE)):
        for element in page:
            # process element
            pass

Next Steps
~~~~~~~~~~

-  Read the `Client Library Documentation`_ for Google Cloud Dataproc API
   API to see other available methods on the client.
-  Read the `Product documentation`_ to learn more about the product and see
   How-to Guides.
