.. _api-configuration:

API Configuration
-----------------

This code generator relies on some configuration not specified in many
published protocol buffers.

.. warning::

  In fact, this is intended to serve as a reference implementation for
  proposed configuration, so as of this writing it is not published anywhere,
  and is subject to change.

This plugin *will* successfully publish a library on a valid protobuf API
even without any additional information set, but may require some
post-processing work by a human in this case before the resulting client
library will work.

Look for values enclosed by ``<<<`` and ``>>>`` to quickly spot these.
As of this writing, these are the ``SERVICE_ADDRESS`` and ``OAUTH_SCOPES``
constants defined in ``base.py`` files.

Reading further assumes you are at least nominally familiar with protocol
buffers and their syntax. You may not be familiar with `options`_ yet; it is
recommended to read up on them before continuing. (As a note, no need to
learn about creating custom options; being able to set options that are
already defined is sufficient.)

.. _options: https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#options


Annotations and Imports
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As mentioned above, this tool uses a interface specification that is
currently experimental.

When specifying an annotation, your proto will need to import the file
where the annotation is defined. If you try to use an annotation without
importing the dependency proto, then ``protoc`` will give you an error.

These protos live on the ``input-contract`` branch in the
`api-common-protos`_ repository.

Your best bet is to likely clone this repository:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ git clone git@github.com:googleapis/api-common-protos.git
  $ cd api-common-protos
  $ git checkout --track -b input-contract origin/input-contract

Once this is done, you will need to specify the root of this repository
on disk as a ``--proto_path`` whenever invoking ``protoc``.

.. _api-common-protos: https://github.com/googleapis/api-common-protos/tree/input-contract



API Client Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The most important piece of information this plugin requires is information
about the client library itself: what should it be called, what is its proper
namespace, and so on.

This is rolled up into a structure called ``Metadata``, and the annotation
is defined in `google/api/metadata.proto`_.

The option may be defined as a full structure at the top level of the proto
file. It is recommended that this be declared other under ``option``
directives, and above services or messages.

This annotation is optional, and you may not need it. The generator will
infer a proper name, namespace and version from the ``package`` statement:

.. code-block:: protobuf

  // This will come out to be:
  //   package namespace: ['Acme', 'Manufacturing']
  //   package name: 'Anvils'
  //   version: 'v1'
  package acme.manufacturing.anvils.v1;

If the inferred package name is wrong for some reason, then the annotation
is important.

.. code-block:: protobuf

  package acme.anvils.v1;

  // The namespace provided here will take precedence over the
  // inferred one.
  option (google.api.metadata) = {
    "package_namespace": ["Acme", "Manufacturing"]
  };

.. note::

  The ``google.api.metadata`` annotation can be used to specify a
  namespace or name, but the version *must* be specified in the proto package.


Service Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to properly connect to an API, the client library needs to know
where the API service is running, as well as what (if anything) else is
required in order to properly connect.

This plugin understands two options for this, which are also defined in
`google/api/metadata.proto`_. Rather than being options on
top level files, however, these are both options on `services`_. If an API
defines more than one service, these options do *not* need to match between
them.

The first option is the **host** where the service can be reached:

.. code-block:: protobuf

  service AnvilService {
    option (google.api.default_host) = "anvils.acme.com"
  }

The second option is any oauth scopes which are needed. Google's auth
libraries (such as `google-auth`_ in Python, which code generated by
this plugin uses) expect that credentials declare what scopes they believe
they need, and the auth libraries do the right thing in the situation where
authorization is needed, access has been revoked, and so on.

.. code-block:: protobuf

  service AnvilService {
    option (google.api.oauth) = {
      scopes: ["https://anvils.acme.com/auth/browse-anvils",
               "https://anvils.acme.com/auth/drop-anvils"]
    };
  }

.. _services: https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#services
.. _google/api/metadata.proto: https://github.com/googleapis/api-common-protos/blob/input-contract/google/api/metadata.proto
.. _google-auth: https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-auth-library-python


Long-Running Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Occasionally, API requests may take a long time. In this case, APIs may
run a task in the background and provide the client with a token to
retrieve the result later.

The ``google.longrunning.Operation`` message is intended for this purpose.
It is defined in `google/longrunning/operations.proto`_ and can be used
as the return type of an RPC.

However, when doing this, the ultimate return type is lost. Therefore,
it is important to annotate the return type (and metadata type, if applicable)
so that client libraries are able to deserialize the message.

.. code-block:: protobuf

  import "google/api/annotations.proto";

  package acme.anvils.v1;

  service AnvilService {
    rpc DeliverAnvil(DeliverAnvilRequest)
        returns (google.longrunning.Operation) {
      option (google.api.operation) = {
        response_type: "acme.anvils.v1.DeliverAnvilResponse"
        metadata_type: "acme.anvils.v1.DeliverAnvilMetadata"
      };
    }
  }

.. _google/longrunning/operations.proto: https://github.com/googleapis/api-common-protos/blob/input-contract/google/longrunning/operations.proto
